---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/the-world/the-island-of-qba/history-of-the-island/history-of-the-island/"}
---

It was not in the nature of the first settlers to leave detailed notes for future generations, and many of the notes that did exist were destroyed in a fire which blazed through much of early [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/Drakenholm/Drakenholm\|Drakenholm]]. However, some events of note have been documented, at least vaguely.

#### Formation of the Island
Almost 1000 years ago, a comet passed close to [[The World/The World Beyond Qba/Toril/Toril\|Toril]], our home world. It was expected to pass the planet without issue, and it did. However, a second body was following behind the comet. This second body was caught by the gravitational pull of the planet and crashed into The Great Sea. It is believed that this meteorite became the island now known as [[The World/The Island of Qba/The Island of Qba\|The Island of Qba]]. 

#### Here There Be Dragons
The first settlers of [[The World/The Island of Qba/The Island of Qba\|The Island of Qba]] were [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Races/Dragonkin/Dragonborn of Q'ba\|Dragonborn of Q'ba]], the area where they landed became known as [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/Kings Landing/Kings Landing\|Kin's Landing]]. For whatever reason they came to the island, they discovered that it had already been blessed by gods to sustain life. Most of the island was covered in a luscious greenery, and the beginnings of new biomes, like fresh sprigs.

In the north, a mountainous peak began to be covered in snow. Marshlands in the east were filling with unique flora, specialising itself to the acidic soil and water on which the area sat. The south was dry and arid, but blessed already with [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/The Desert/Points of Interest/The Tears of Garyx\|The Tears of Garyx]]. And, in the west, sparse treelines were quickly becoming dense forests. These are the domains of [[The World/Deities/The Four Cardinal Gods/The Four Cardinal Gods\|The Four Cardinal Gods]].

#### A City to Pierce the Sky
Somewhat centrally, a plateau sat high above the island, like a crown astride the island's head. On this spot the settlers began to build their settlement. What began as a humble village in an easily defensible position quickly became a town, then the beginnings of a city, [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/Drakenholm/Drakenholm\|Drakenholm]]. 

The leader of these settlers was given the title of [[The World/The Island of Qba/History of the Island/The Rule of Qba/The Crown\|The Crown]] and, soon after, a castle was created to honour them. [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/Drakenholm/Districts of Drakenholm/The Castle\|The Castle]] is a spire structure built in the image of all [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Races/Dragonkin/Dragonborn of Q'ba\|Dragonborn of Q'ba]], which reaches into the sky as a signal to the gods of the island, dwarfing all but the mountain of [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/Astilabors Peak/Astilabors Peak\|Astilabors Peak]] itself.

Soon new settlements spawned within each of the four regions of the island. [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/Astilabors Peak/Settlements/Astilabor's Claw\|Astilabor's Claw]] in [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/Astilabors Peak/Astilabors Peak\|Astilabors Peak]], [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/Dimmafall/Settlements/Kindlewood\|Kindlewood]] in [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/Dimmafall/Dimmafall\|Dimmafall]], as well as Nomadic tribes such as [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/The Desert/Settlements/The Kindred Redhearts\|The Kindred Redhearts]] who chased the oasis in [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/The Desert/The Desert\|The Desert]], and tiny stilt villages which sprung up across [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/Stillwater Mire/Stillwater Mire\|Stillwater Mire]].

Each of these settlements was tiny, and required constant supply from [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/Drakenholm/Drakenholm\|Drakenholm]] to sustain itself, but benefitted from the liberty away from the cramped and labyrinthine streets of a city which grew faster than plans could be made.

This is how the settlers lived for hundreds of years, with occasional visits from others who come from the [[The World/The World Beyond Qba/Toril/Far-Off Lands/Far-Off Lands\|Far-Off Lands]], of whom some would rarely remain on the island.

#### A Pot Boiled Over
Around 300 years ago, [[The World/The Island of Qba/History of the Island/The Rule of Qba/The Crown\|The Crown]] of [[The World/The Island of Qba/The Island of Qba\|The Island of Qba]] died, as many had done before. However, this time was different.

[[The World/The Island of Qba/History of the Island/The Rule of Qba/The Crown Traditions/Succession of The Crown\|Succession of The Crown]] was well defined by this point, yet the rules were simple: whosoever is the current ruler of the island may choose their successor from anyone else on the island, and that choice is to be upheld. 

The choice, in this case, passed [[The World/The Island of Qba/History of the Island/The Rule of Qba/The Crown\|The Crown]] to a member outside of the family, now known simply as [[The World/Legendary Figures/Folk Tales/The Just\|The Just]]. The son, now known as [[The World/Legendary Figures/Folk Tales/The Greedy\|The Greedy]], took this personally as they considered themselves 'the heir', believing [[The World/The Island of Qba/History of the Island/The Rule of Qba/The Crown\|The Crown]] to be a birth right. Unfortunately, as stories passed from one storyteller to another, their true names have been lost to time.

[[The World/Legendary Figures/Folk Tales/The Greedy\|The Greedy]] was powerful, a noble, with similarly powerful friends. In all circles, money moves people, and in this case moved them into a frenzy, rising up against [[The World/Legendary Figures/Folk Tales/The Just\|The Just]] who was merely a simple carpenter who built homes for the needy. It was for this simple act that the prior ruler deemed him the personification of the island's spirit, hence earning [[The World/The Island of Qba/History of the Island/The Rule of Qba/The Crown\|The Crown]].

Such a rebellion was not as easy as [[The World/Legendary Figures/Folk Tales/The Greedy\|The Greedy]] expected, as many common folk stood against him, knowing [[The World/Legendary Figures/Folk Tales/The Just\|The Just]] to be worthy of [[The World/The Island of Qba/History of the Island/The Rule of Qba/The Crown\|The Crown]]. Not only through the choice of the previous ruler, but also as the choice of the common folk. 

This led to a war in the city of [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/Drakenholm/Drakenholm\|Drakenholm]]. The nobility had resources, which the common folk made up for in numbers. It was during this time that fires around the city began which could not be stopped easily due to the overcrowding within the city. 

Between the fighting and the fire, hundreds lost their lives. Including both [[The World/Legendary Figures/Folk Tales/The Greedy\|The Greedy]] and [[The World/Legendary Figures/Folk Tales/The Just\|The Just]]. It was many months until hostilities calmed enough for a new [[The World/The Island of Qba/History of the Island/The Rule of Qba/The Crown\|Crown]] to be named, chosen from the settlements outside of the city in order to try to appease the whole island.

Eventually, the island returned to relative harmony once more.

#### The Eyes of a God
It was this war, a battle of justice and greed, which brought [[The World/Deities/The Binary Gods/Bahamut\|Bahamut]] and [[The World/Deities/The Binary Gods/Tiamat\|Tiamat]]'s gaze upon the island, and so two new gods joined [[The World/The Island of Qba/History of the Island/Q'ba's Draconic Pantheon\|Q'ba's Draconic Pantheon]], come to be known as [[The World/Deities/The Binary Gods/The Binary Gods\|The Binary Gods]]. Soon small shrines to these gods began appearing alongside those of [[The World/Deities/The Four Cardinal Gods/The Four Cardinal Gods\|The Four Cardinal Gods]], some [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Races/Dragonkin/Dragonborn of Q'ba\|Dragonborn of Q'ba]] even set aside [[The World/Deities/The Four Cardinal Gods/The Four Cardinal Gods\|The Four]] to pledge themselves only to [[The World/Deities/The Binary Gods/Bahamut\|Bahamut]] or [[The World/Deities/The Binary Gods/Tiamat\|Tiamat]], whilst others worshipped one or both in addition to members of [[The World/Deities/The Four Cardinal Gods/The Four Cardinal Gods\|The Four Cardinal Gods]].

#### The City Sheds its Skin
From the literal ashes of [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/Drakenholm/Drakenholm\|Drakenholm]], the city became reborn. The population slowly began to recover, and as it did new districts were created, each more carefully thought out than the city's previous form. 

The settlements across the island became integral to the rebuild, with [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/Dimmafall/Settlements/Kindlewood\|Kindlewood]] in particular providing necessary building materials, and [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/Astilabors Peak/Settlements/Astilabor's Claw\|Astilabor's Claw]] providing materials for luxuries. This increase in job opportunity brought about a population increase to those regions. And where precious materials are to be mined, [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Races/Non-Human/Dwarves of Q'ba\|Dwarves]] are easy to come by. 

As the city grew, artisans made their stores within [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/Drakenholm/Districts of Drakenholm/The Bread Forge\|The Bread Forge]], and temples to each of the Gods were built in [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/Drakenholm/Districts of Drakenholm/Free Borough\|Free Borough]]. Those who were wealthy made their homes in [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/Drakenholm/Districts of Drakenholm/Upper Quarters\|The White Gardens District]], and those who transcended even those in wealth, built along [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/Drakenholm/Districts of Drakenholm/Dragonhill Mile\|Dragonhill Mile]]. Most everyone else was tasked with repairing, and living within, the last remains of the city before the fire, now called [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/Drakenholm/Districts of Drakenholm/Old Town\|Old Town]]. 

Unfortunately, with a steadily increasing population and careful planning comes displacement. The city's grand entrance plaza slowly became a spot for those who had nowhere else to live, but that could not face leaving the city. The plaza earned the nicknamed [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/Drakenholm/Districts of Drakenholm/Beggars Gate\|Beggars Gate]]. While it was not uncommon for the plaza to be empty, due to bouts of sudden builds elsewhere, the nickname stuck.

##### The Klither
With farmland nearly reaching their limits and a constant battle with disease, population growth began to slow, and became more steady and manageable. 

During this time people began to move away from labour tasks and it became common for people to move into other fields, such as art, or the study of the arcane and divine. 

As people became more competent with magic, they began to find that the island suffered from an affliction which they called [[The World/The Island of Qba/History of the Island/The Klither\|The Klither]]. Planar travel was almost impossible, and extradimensional spaces were filled with an inexplicable, endless buzzing. Study of these kinds became rare due to the danger of Wild Magic as an effect of [[The World/The Island of Qba/History of the Island/The Klither\|The Klither]], yet for some this was all the more reason to study.

#### Moving in Circles
Somewhere around 100 years ago a druid circle, the Circle of the Shepherd, visited the island whilst looking for regions of beauty, in which they would spread the seeds of [[zzRules/DnD Basic Rules (SRD)/03) Monsters/Dryad\|Dryad]]s. 

They were awed by the beauty of [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/Dimmafall/Dimmafall\|Dimmafall]] and it's forest. Beyond just planting the seeds of [[zzRules/DnD Basic Rules (SRD)/03) Monsters/Dryad\|Dryad]], many of the druids decided to make a permanent settlement within, in order to bask in the forest and watch over the [[zzRules/DnD Basic Rules (SRD)/03) Monsters/Dryad\|Dryad]]. They called their settlement [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/Dimmafall/Settlements/Circe\|Circe]].

#### Land Ho
Approximately 70 years ago, a wandering fleet of pirates were passing across The Great Sea and happened upon the island of [[The World/The Island of Qba/The Island of Qba\|The Island of Qba]]. Assuming the island to be full of goods, the pirates blockaded the island at [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/Kings Landing/Kings Landing\|Kin's Landing]] stopping trade from entering the island. The island's population struggled to maintain itself during the almost year long siege as trade was significant in ensuring enough food stock between harvesting seasons. Beyond just blockading the island, the pirates unleashed a constant barrage of canon fire at the island, damaging infrastructure near the coast, and especially [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/Kings Landing/Kings Landing\|Kin's Landing]] itself. 

Eventually, after a period of failed negotiations, a powerful [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Races/Dragonkin/Dragonborn of Q'ba\|Dragonborn of Q'ba]] cleric stepped up with an answer. [[The World/Legendary Figures/Rulers/Draumur 'Greenscale' Funahjarta\|Draumur 'Greenscale' Funahjarta]] was a follower of [[The World/Deities/The Four Cardinal Gods/Garyx\|Garyx]] and called upon his deity to aid the island, calling down a maelstrom upon the pirates. This destroyed most of the ships outright, made many more unseaworthy, and sent a powerful message to any pirates that lived to tell the tale. None have returned for a second attempt.

#### Upon a New Head
A few years later, on Sunday, the 28th of Voxtur, 1422 [[The World/Legendary Figures/Rulers/Draumur 'Greenscale' Funahjarta\|Draumur 'Greenscale' Funahjarta]] is chosen to become [[The World/The Island of Qba/History of the Island/The Rule of Qba/The Crown\|The Crown]] of [[The World/The Island of Qba/The Island of Qba\|The Island of Qba]] for his heroic actions against the pirate attackers. This day was chosen to be highly symbolic, as this made [[The World/Legendary Figures/Rulers/Draumur 'Greenscale' Funahjarta\|Greenscale]]'s first full day as island ruler the first day of the intercalary of [[The World/The Island of Qba/Calendar\|Garyx]], and so was the first day of the [[Festival of Fire\|Festival of Fire]]. Thus, making Draumur The Crown on this day showed thanks for the part that [[The World/Deities/The Four Cardinal Gods/Garyx\|Garyx]] played in the event.

#### A New Chapter
In the years since the pirate attack on the island, the people of [[The World/The Island of Qba/The Island of Qba\|The Island of Qba]] became hesitant of newcomers to the island. Known traders, or single ships were easy to come to terms with, but In 1449 a small fleet of four ships appeared on the island's horizon. The island was put on alert and troops set up defensive positions around the island, and specifically at [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/Kings Landing/Kings Landing\|Kin's Landing]]. 

However, the island was not attacked. Instead a single rowboat approached the shoreline, containing a handful of Humans. One of these was [[Story/People/Enemies/King Francis Roberts\|Francis Roberts]], a wizard and the leader of the group, acting as an envoy for himself and those who remained on the ship. He proposed that the he and the other humans had come to the island to settle, with some hoping they might study the island and it's odd behaviour, regarding [[The World/The Island of Qba/History of the Island/The Klither\|The Klither]]. The humans had also suffered at sea. Almost as soon as they set off, the ships were ravaged by disease. What started as a voyage of 500 now just under 200.

Almost everyone on the island had a shared opinion, that [[The World/Regional Authorities/Whole Island/The Crown Guard/The Crown Guard\|The Crown Guard]] should push these trespassers back out into the ocean where they came from. However, [[The World/Legendary Figures/Rulers/Draumur 'Greenscale' Funahjarta\|Draumur]], [[The World/The Island of Qba/History of the Island/The Rule of Qba/The Crown\|The Crown]], approached the human envoy alone and after a lengthy discussion decreed that the humans may make a new home on the island, though each human was to be catalogued as they enter the island. Further, [[Story/People/Enemies/King Francis Roberts\|Francis Roberts]] was given the official title of Human Envoy, and he would ultimately be held accountable for the behaviour of the humans.

#### The Seventh God
However, it was quickly shown that the worries about the humans was not warranted, as the humans quickly got to work upon the island, as is the human way. The humans brought with them their own deity, [[The World/Deities/Human Gods/Ilmatar\|Ilmatar]], The Lord on the Rack. Under his guiding hands the humans bared a great workload. But more than just a strong attitude to work, the humans brought with them technologies and an understanding of medicine which was new to the island. 

Technologies such as crop rotations boosted the island's agriculture, allowing for far more food and resources to be grown with the same amount of effort. Simple antibiotics and first aid techniques led to a much higher survival rate, for both children and adults. This knowledge, and more, was shared with the island and led to a boom in population as people all across the island were much less reliant on having to farm for themselves, or worry about illness. This also led to people moving out of the city, growing the towns that already existed, such as [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/Dimmafall/Dimmafall\|Dimmafall]], as well as the creation of small settlements which popped up all across the island. 

Over time the island grew to be self-sufficient, the amount of resources gathered and grown outweighed the requirements of the population. This extra abundance of resources allowed for a stronger position for trade negotiations with ships as they moved between continents. Over and over, this became a fruitful cycle, creating opportunities then growth, then more opportunities among the people of the island.

In the years since humans settled on the island, the population of humans has almost surpassed that of [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Races/Dragonkin/Dragonborn of Q'ba\|Dragonborn of Q'ba]], and by far outweigh any other [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Races/Non-Human/Non-Human\|Non-Human]] species on the island. By this time [[Story/People/Enemies/King Francis Roberts\|Francis Roberts]] has received the nickname "The Foreign". A nickname which may seem like a slight on the surface, but in fact is a praise for all that he has done for the island even though he does not come from these lands.

#### Ygerdern The Golden
Calendars roll over to the year of 1960, and news spreads of [[The World/The Island of Qba/History of the Island/The Rule of Qba/The Crown\|The Crown]]'s succession. [[The World/Legendary Figures/Rulers/Draumur 'Greenscale' Funahjarta\|Draumur 'Greenscale' Funahjarta]] is growing old, and whilst he has overseen a golden age for [[The World/The Island of Qba/The Island of Qba\|The Island of Qba]] he decides that it is time to step down, before the choice is taken from him. His son, [[The World/Legendary Figures/Rulers/Emperor Ygerdern 'the Golden' Funahjarta\|Ygerdern Funahjarta]], is chosen to bear [[The World/The Island of Qba/History of the Island/The Rule of Qba/The Crown\|The Crown]] and is given the nickname "The Golden". [[The World/Legendary Figures/Rulers/Draumur 'Greenscale' Funahjarta\|Greenscale]] dies less than a year later.

A few months after his succession, [[The World/Legendary Figures/Rulers/Emperor Ygerdern 'the Golden' Funahjarta\|Emperor Ygerdern 'the Golden' Funahjarta]] builds his council.
As his members of [[The World/The Island of Qba/History of the Island/The Rule of Qba/The Crown Traditions/The Three\|The Three]] he chooses:
**The Overseer of Religious Ceremony** - [[High Priest Thrumundi the Thunderbound\|High Priest Thrumundi the Thunderbound]], a Blue Dragon
**Envoy to the Common Folk** - [[Gullklan Safnara\|Gullklan Safnara]], a Green Dragon
**The Island Treasurer**- [[Thruumb Hugsi\|Thruumb Hugsi]], a White Dragon

However, [[The World/Legendary Figures/Rulers/Emperor Ygerdern 'the Golden' Funahjarta\|Ygerdern]] breaks from the tradition of [[The World/The Island of Qba/History of the Island/The Rule of Qba/The Crown Traditions/The Three\|The Three]] by instating a fourth official member to the council:
***Secretary to Humanity*** - [[Story/People/Enemies/King Francis Roberts\|Francis "The Foreign" Roberts]]. 

Such a title was a great boon from the [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Races/Dragonkin/Dragonborn of Q'ba\|Dragonborn of Q'ba]] people, a gift which showed the strong bonds between human and dragon kin. One that was celebrated across the island.

#### Heavy is The Head
12th day of Muna, 1480, [[The World/Legendary Figures/Rulers/Emperor Ygerdern 'the Golden' Funahjarta\|Emperor Ygerdern 'the Golden' Funahjarta]] dies an elder. Upon his death it was his will that [[The World/The Island of Qba/History of the Island/The Rule of Qba/The Crown\|The Crown]] should be passed to [[Story/People/Enemies/King Francis Roberts\|Francis "The Foreign" Roberts]], instead of going to his son, [[The World/Legendary Figures/Famous Individuals/Leifr Funahjarta\|Leifr Funahjarta]]. A wish that was happily agreed by most everyone on the island, both human and non-human, including [[The World/Legendary Figures/Famous Individuals/Leifr Funahjarta\|Leifr]] himself. For, if it were not for his leadership, the island may not be so well off as it is today.

Throughout his time on the island [[Story/People/Enemies/King Francis Roberts\|Emperor Francis "The Foreign" Roberts]] had made a habit of sending out parties to perform research across the island, or even going himself. With this increase in power such research parties became more common, and more secretive about their works.

On the 1st day of Sorg, 1481. [[Story/People/Enemies/King Francis Roberts\|Emperor Francis "The Foreign" Roberts]] makes his first major change upon the island by introducing a new tax. Reasoning that [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Races/Non-Human/Non-Human\|Non-Human]] make up a smaller portion of the population, the amount of taxes paid by humans alone was inequitable. As such, any and all [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Races/Non-Human/Non-Human\|Non-Human]] must pay an additional 5% on top of any owed taxes, in line with population differences. 

Of course, such a tax was met with harsh words and a great level of dispute, but [[Story/People/Enemies/King Francis Roberts\|Roberts']] history with the island leads the law to pass with agreement from the other members of [[The World/Legendary Figures/Rulers/Emperor Ygerdern 'the Golden' Funahjarta\|Ygerdern]]'s members of [[The World/The Island of Qba/History of the Island/The Rule of Qba/The Crown Traditions/The Three\|The Three]] without much effort, and goes into effect.

Later the same year, [[The World/Legendary Figures/Rulers/Emperor Ygerdern 'the Golden' Funahjarta\|Ygerdern's]] council is stepped down, with [[Story/People/Enemies/King Francis Roberts\|Emperor Francis "The Foreign" Roberts]]' council being chosen to take it's place. For the second reign in a row tradition is broken, as [[Story/People/Enemies/King Francis Roberts\|Emperor Francis "The Foreign" Roberts]] instates [[The World/The Island of Qba/History of the Island/The Rule of Qba/The Crown Councils/The Council of King Francis Roberts\|five members]] instead of following the rule of [[The World/The Island of Qba/History of the Island/The Rule of Qba/The Crown Traditions/The Three\|The Three]]. 

[[Story/People/Enemies/King Francis Roberts\|Francis Roberts]] changes his title to King.

#### The Thorn
Another year passes, human population grows without indication of slowing, current human population ~1,600. Now 10% above [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Races/Dragonkin/Dragonborn of Q'ba\|Dragonborn of Q'ba]] and, as such, [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Races/Non-Human/Non-Human\|Non-Human]] taxes are raised to match. A modification of the law which passed through the council without dispute. Over the next year, many [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Races/Dragonkin/Dragonborn of Q'ba\|Dragonborn of Q'ba]] began to leave the island, their home for many generations, over concerns that they would not be able to continue to pay rising taxes. 

In following years, [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Races/Non-Human/Non-Human\|Non-Human]] struggle to pay the additional taxes whilst running profitable businesses, or working arduous hours. Those who were the most destitute had to take loans, often from humans, and often without means to ever repay them. Time continued on, and [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Races/Non-Human/Non-Human\|Non-Human]] noble houses, even those with strong lineages, fell into poverty whilst human families rose. It became normal to see [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Races/Dragonkin/Dragonborn of Q'ba\|Dragonborn of Q'ba]] who were in servitude to human masters for debts they could not return.

Eventually the [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Races/Non-Human/Non-Human\|Non-Human]], especially [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Races/Dragonkin/Dragonborn of Q'ba\|Dragonborn of Q'ba]] began to lead protests, or small-scale riots. In response [[The World/Regional Authorities/Whole Island/The Crown Guard/The Crown Guard\|The Crown Guard]] used force. [[Story/People/Enemies/King Francis Roberts\|King Francis "The Foreign" Roberts]] renames his council **Keepers of the Peace**, and tasks them with putting down any risk of rebellion.

[[Story/People/Enemies/King Francis Roberts\|King Francis Roberts]] banishes his nickname, "The Foreign", as the population begin using it as a form of attack, often bastardising his name to become "Frank The Thorn" and serving as inspiration for a now outlawed ballad.

[[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/Kings Landing/Kings Landing\|Kin's Landing]] undergoes a semantic change, as verbal misunderstandings are set in stone. It is more commonly now referred to as [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/Kings Landing/Kings Landing\|Kings Landing]].

#### The One Who Endures
In 1487, with many of the most impoverished [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Races/Dragonkin/Dragonborn of Q'ba\|Dragonborn of Q'ba]] now in service to the wealthiest humans, the symbol of [[The World/Deities/Human Gods/Ilmatar\|Ilmatar]] is enforced across the island. The suffering of [[The World/Deities/Human Gods/Ilmatar\|Ilmatar]] is used as a weapon against ungrateful [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Races/Non-Human/Non-Human\|Non-Human]] who do not appreciate their opportunity to repay the debts they owe.

Whilst never mentioned in any way about being outlawed, public promoting of [[The World/Deities/The Four Cardinal Gods/The Four Cardinal Gods\|The Four Cardinal Gods]], or [[The World/Deities/The Binary Gods/The Binary Gods\|The Binary Gods]] was shunned and religious ceremonies become more muted. Teachings of faith became much more focussed on [[The World/Deities/Human Gods/Ilmatar\|Ilmatar]], and the island's gods were barely a passing topic.

During times of civil unrest it is often religious temples which find themselves the target of rioting, assaults and theft. Eventually, this led to the destruction of many temples dedicated to the gods, especially those considered to align with negative aspects of life: [[The World/Deities/The Four Cardinal Gods/Null\|Death]], [[The World/Deities/The Four Cardinal Gods/Garyx\|Destruction]], or [[The World/Deities/The Four Cardinal Gods/Astilabor\|Greed]], as well as [[The World/Deities/The Binary Gods/Tiamat\|Evil]]. Both within the city of [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/Drakenholm/Drakenholm\|Drakenholm]], and without. One such example is the destruction of the temple of [[The World/Deities/The Binary Gods/Tiamat\|Tiamat]], which seemed to have occurred after a priest [[The World/The Island of Qba/Newspaper Clippings/Temple of Tiamat Torched!\|attacked a human baker]] without cause.

Through 1489 and into 1490 the land of [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/The Desert/The Desert\|The Desert]] became mostly uninhabited, but for a nomadic tribe called [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/The Desert/Settlements/The Kindred Redhearts\|The Kindred Redhearts]]. In the last year, the nightly blasts of lightning and thunderous rainstorms have waned significantly, meaning that on occasion the oasis known as [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/The Desert/Points of Interest/The Tears of Garyx\|The Tears of Garyx]] are not replenished for days.

#### In The Midnight Hour
Towards the end of 1490, [[The World/Legendary Figures/Famous Individuals/Leifr Funahjarta\|Leifr Funahjarta]] disappears from the public eye. Prior to this he has been seen travelling all over the island helping the needy wherever he goes. Trying to make a difference. Rumours stir of kidnapping or murder.

As 1491 rolls around seemingly coordinated attacks on food caravans between the farms and the city begin. Within a week caravan guards are increased, and it is shown that only the poorest are affected by the shortages. The attacks do not last, but they do spark talk of rebellion, which is once again stamped out, hard, by the Keepers of the Peace and their charge.

#### Present Day
Talk of rebellion is muttered under hushed breaths in back alleys, the thought alone considered treason. Hooded people gathering in back alleys of [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/Drakenholm/Drakenholm\|Drakenholm]] can only be considered a rumour. 
The news has not reported an attack on patrolling guards for months.

The power of [[The World/Deities/The Four Cardinal Gods/The Four Cardinal Gods\|The Four Cardinal Gods]] wavers, and [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/The Desert/The Desert\|The Desert]] storm has weakened. Whilst it rages with ferocity still, it only occurs once a week. A far sight from the nightly event it once was.

Conversion of the acid marshes of [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/Stillwater Mire/Stillwater Mire\|Stillwater Mire]] has been started by a group of humans, with the aim of terraforming the area for eventual conversion to allow an increased farming potential.

The [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Races/Non-Human/Dwarves of Q'ba\|Dwarves]] and [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Races/Non-Human/Goblins of Q'ba\|Goblins of Q'ba]]s of [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/Astilabors Peak/Astilabors Peak\|Astilabors Peak]], known wide for their harvesting of riches in the mountains, have not been seen in some time, leading to rumours that they have found some way of secretly leaving the island.

People go missing from the region of [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/Dimmafall/Dimmafall\|Dimmafall]] almost weekly. Not even a body has been found. Stories of their whereabouts are as wild as they are wide ranging.

The port of [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/Kings Landing/Kings Landing\|Kings Landing]] continues to bustle with the trade of many nations, and the main route between the port and [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/Drakenholm/Drakenholm\|Drakenholm]] is crucial for logistics. In order to shore up the protection of this route a new town is built, [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/The Desert/Settlements/New Mercy\|New Mercy]].

[[Story/People/Enemies/King Francis Roberts\|King Francis Roberts]] continues to be seen in public, a show of strength against those wanting him out of the picture.



***(Still to be fleshed out)***
- [[The World/The Island of Qba/History of the Island/The Rule of Qba/The Crown\|The Crown]]'s daughter, the Princess [[Francesca Roberts\|Francesca Roberts]], has not been seen in many months. Previously known for her friendship with fellow islanders, especially those who she went to school with, many of whom were noble born dragonborn from houses now fallen.

