---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/the-island-of-qba/history-of-the-island/timeline/"}
---

- 300 Years ago, [[The Island of Qba/History of the Island/The Rule of Qba/The Crown Traditions/Succession of The Crown\|Succession of The Crown]] led to a minor war within the city. One who considered themselves the 'heir' was not pleased when they were passed over, and [[The Island of Qba/History of the Island/The Rule of Qba/The Crown\|The Crown]] handed to someone else. At this time a large portion [[Settlements/Drakenholm/Drakenholm\|Drakenholm]] was damaged, some of which was beyond saving by repairs alone. The areas of the city that were untouched are known, today, as The [[Settlements/Drakenholm/Districts of Drakenholm/Old Town\|Old Town]].
- From the ending of this war, the presence of [[Deities/The Binary Gods/Tiamat\|Tiamat]] and [[Deities/The Binary Gods/Bahamut\|Bahamut]] was made known to the island.
- In Q'ba, [[Deities/The Four Cardinal Gods/-The Four Cardinal Gods-\|-The Four Cardinal Gods-]] are worshiped by the [[Island Races/Dragonkin/Dragonborn\|Dragonborn]]:
	- **[[Deities/The Four Cardinal Gods/Astilabor\|Astilabor]]** - Goddess of acquisitiveness and trickery. The deity of the northern mountains, rich with gems and precious metals. They command the domains of Knowledge and Trickery. They are bound to [[The Island of Qba/Island Regions/Astilabor's Peak\|Astilabor's Peak]]
	- **[[Deities/The Four Cardinal Gods/Null\|Null]]** - The God of death and dead dragons. The deity of the east, presiding over acid marshes. They command the domains of Death and War. They are bound to [[The Island of Qba/Island Regions/Stillwater Mire\|Stillwater Mire]].
	- **[[Deities/The Four Cardinal Gods/Garyx\|Garyx]]** - God of Fire, Destruction and Renewal. The deity of the southern deserts. Home to scorching sun by day, and raging lightning storms by night. They command the domains of Light and Tempest. They are bound to [[The Island of Qba/Island Regions/The Desert\|The Desert]].
	- **[[Deities/The Four Cardinal Gods/Tamara\|Tamara]]** - The Goddess of mercy and healing. The deity of the West, residing over the dense forest lands and all within. They command the domains of Life and Nature. They are bound to [[The Island of Qba/Island Regions/Dimmafall\|Dimmafall]].
- **70 years ago** - Pirates sieged the island of [[The Island of Qba/Q'ba\|Q'ba]], firing canons from ships at sea. [[The Island of Qba/History of the Island/The Rule of Qba/Previous Rulers/Draumur 'Greenscale' Funahjarta\|Draumur 'Greenscale' Funahjarta]], a powerful Cleric and follower of [[Deities/The Four Cardinal Gods/Garyx\|Garyx]] called to his [[Deities/List of Deities\|List of Deities]] to create a lightning storm, destroying the pirates ships and saving the island.
- **65 years ago** - Due to his heroics against the pirates, [[The Island of Qba/History of the Island/The Rule of Qba/Previous Rulers/Draumur 'Greenscale' Funahjarta\|Draumur]] is chosen to be [[The Island of Qba/History of the Island/The Rule of Qba/The Crown Traditions/Succession of The Crown\|Successor]] to [[The Island of Qba/History of the Island/The Rule of Qba/The Crown\|The Crown]].
- **40 years ago** - a fleet of ships were spotted off the coast of [[The Island of Qba/Q'ba\|Q'ba]]. A row boat approached the docks, the ships contained [[Island Races/Human/Human\|Humans]], some who had a scholarly interest in the island, and others who had joined them to settle on the island with them. The leader of the humans, [[People/Enemies/Francis Roberts\|Francis Roberts]], was the first to leave the row boat which entered port where he met [[The Island of Qba/History of the Island/The Rule of Qba/The Crown\|The Crown]], [[The Island of Qba/History of the Island/The Rule of Qba/Previous Rulers/Draumur 'Greenscale' Funahjarta\|Draumur]], the father of [[The Island of Qba/History of the Island/The Rule of Qba/Previous Rulers/Ygerdern 'the Golden' Funahjarta\|Ygerdern 'the Golden' Funahjarta]]. Draumur had come to the port as the ships were a cause for concern, however [[People/Enemies/Francis Roberts\|Francis Roberts]] put forward his proposition of research on the island. Draumur, The Crown, cautiously agreed to let the humans settle, though each must be catalogued as the enter the island. Francis Roberts was given the title of Human Envoy, and responsibility of the behaviour of humans was ultimately on him.
- Humans brought with them their own god, [[Deities/Human Gods/Ilmatar\|Ilmatar]], The One who Endures. It is under this god that the humans bare great workload and through this hardwork do they bring understanding of agriculture and healing.
- As time passed from the human landing, technology and knowledge passed from human to dragonborn which allowed for improved crop yield, increased healing abilities, as well as many other things. Times on the island were fruitful and Q'ba become much closer to self-sufficiency, allowing increased trade exports and fewer needs for imports. In the 40 years since, human life has boomed on the island, with the population of humans outgrowing that of dragonborn.
- **30 years ago** - Draumur succeeded The Crown to his son, Ygerdern, and some short years later passed on. Shortly after Ygerdern's succession named his council of The Three as is tradition, but Ygerdern granted council to a fourth member, Francis Roberts, naming him Secretary to Humanity. Such a bond between dragonborn and human was a great gift to be bestowed.
- **11 years ago** - Ygerdern the Golden died an elder, upon his death his will was that The Crown should be passed to Francis Roberts the Foreign, as with his leadership life for all on Q'ba had gained many boons. This decision was seconded by the son of Ygerdern, Leifr.
- Throughout this time Francis Roberts had been sending out, or performing first hand, research across the island in order to understand the geographical landscape and it's potentially magical origins.
- **10 years ago** - Francis Roberts introduces the first change in taxes upon the island. This change leads to an increase in non-human tax payments, the purpose for this tax increase is due to the inequitable amount of income received from the human race due to their higher population rates (5%). Improving equity among the human and non-human races is the given validation for such a tax. It is met with harsh words and dispute, but thanks to Francis Roberts' history with the island the law is passed without great effort.
- In this same year Francis Roberts moved on from Ygerdern's council. The Three were stepped down from their positions. Francis Roberts made a break from tradition and instated 4 members to his council.
- **9 Years ago** - human population had continued increasing, now at over 10% more population than the dragonborn, and as such this non-human tax was increased. This modification was sent through his council and passed without concern.
- Over the next year, many dragonborn who were able left the island, their home for many generations, over concerns for their ability to continue to pay the taxes.
- **7 years ago** - Due to the rising challenges of paying the non-human tax many dragonborn fell into poverty, those who were the most destitute had borrowed loans from humans in order to pay the taxes and were now with no way to return the costs.
- **6 years ago** - With no way of repaying lost loans to humans, some dragonborn began loves of servitude to their now masters. Many dragonborn houses which had been noble for generations had fallen out of wealth and too were struggling to keep up with the monetary power the humans now had. This led to protests and small scale riots. In response human guards used force, and the council of Francis Roberts were renamed Keepers of the Peace.
- **4 years ago** - With many of the most impoverished dragonborn now in service to humans the symbol of [[Deities/Human Gods/Ilmatar\|Ilmatar]] is enforced across the island, the Four Cardinal Gods are slowly limited in following among dragonborn. 
- **2 years ago** - The land of the desert is nearly uninhabited by dragonborn, but for a nomad tribe. In the last year, the blasts of lightning throughout the night has significantly waned. 
- Leifr, son of Ygerdern, disappears from the public eye.
- **1 Year ago** - Seemingly coordinated attacks on food caravans between the farms and the city began. Within a week guards increased on food caravans, attacks did not last long. This was merely a spark, but that of rebellion.
- **Throughout this past decade**, during times of civil unrest, temples have often been targets for rioting and assault, leading to the destruction of many temples dedicated to [[Deities/The Four Cardinal Gods/-The Four Cardinal Gods-\|-The Four Cardinal Gods-]], especially those considered to align with negative aspects of life, such as [[Deities/The Four Cardinal Gods/Null\|Death]], [[Deities/The Four Cardinal Gods/Garyx\|Destruction]], or [[Deities/The Four Cardinal Gods/Astilabor\|Greed]].
- ***This year*** 
	- Talk of rebellion is muttered under hushed breathes in back alleys, the thought alone considered treason. Hooded people gathering in back alleys can only be considered a rumour. The news has not reported an attack on patrolling guards for months.
	- The power of the Four Cardinal Gods wavers and the desert storm has weakened. It rages with ferocity still, but only once a week. A far sight from the nightly event it once was.
	- Conversion of the acid marshes has been started by a group of humans, the aim is to terraform the area for eventual conversion to allow much increased farming potential.
	- The Dwarves and Goblins, known wide for their harvesting of riches in the mountains have not been seen in some time, leading to rumours that they have found some way of leaving the island.
	- The port continues to bustle with the trade of many nations, with cargo passing through on its way to a final destination the island has long been a great rest point for entertainment and stocking up on supplies.
	- The Crowns daughter, Princess Frances Roberts has not been seen in many months. Previously known for her friendship with fellow islanders, especially those who she went to school with, many of whom were noble born dragonborn from houses now fallen.
	- King Francis Roberts continues to be seen in public, a show of strength against those wanting him out of the picture.
- ***Now*** - Your actions in the past year have been noticed, you receive a message through a trusted source. It reads "The Rebellion begins. - L" Coordinates are given below. You decide to follow, who knows where it might take you.

