---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/the-world/notable-people/folk-tales/the-greedy/","tags":["lore"]}
---

The Greedy is a moniker of a character in the story of [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/Drakenholm/Drakenholm\|Drakenholm]]'s civil war somewhere around the year 1200. Their true name is lost to time.

During this time, the [[The World/The Island of Qba/History of the Island/The Rule of Qba/The Crown Traditions/Succession of The Crown\|Succession of The Crown]] was not given to the son of the current ruler. This is because [[The World/The Island of Qba/History of the Island/The Rule of Qba/The Crown\|The Crown]] of the time did not deem them worthy, instead choosing a humble commoner. 

The commoner, known today as [[The World/Notable People/Folk Tales/The Just\|The Just]], was a carpenter that was well known and loved by the community. This is because they would spend their free time building shelter, or even houses, for the needy. Those who could not manage or afford to do so themselves. He inspired others to donate materials or time towards the projects and overall did good for the community within [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/Drakenholm/Drakenholm\|Drakenholm]].

The son, known today as [[The World/Notable People/Folk Tales/The Greedy\|The Greedy]], cared not for the reasons his father chose [[The World/Notable People/Folk Tales/The Just\|The Just]]. In his opinion it was his brithright, despite the tradition of [[The World/The Island of Qba/History of the Island/The Rule of Qba/The Crown Traditions/Succession of The Crown\|succession]] never implying such. [[The World/Notable People/Folk Tales/The Greedy\|The Greedy]] was born into wealth, a nobleman, due to his father being [[The World/The Island of Qba/History of the Island/The Rule of Qba/The Crown\|The Crown]], he never wanted for anything. With such a background [[The World/Notable People/Folk Tales/The Greedy\|The Greedy]] was able to use his influence and money to his advantage, dragging many noble houses of [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/Drakenholm/Drakenholm\|Drakenholm]] into a civil war against [[The World/Notable People/Folk Tales/The Just\|The Just]]. 

Many commonfolk stood by the side of [[The World/Notable People/Folk Tales/The Just\|The Just]], both because of their personal opinion of him, and boosted by the fact that he was chosen by the succeeding [[The World/The Island of Qba/History of the Island/The Rule of Qba/The Crown\|Crown]]. Although the commonfolk had numbers, [[The World/Notable People/Folk Tales/The Greedy\|The Greedy]] and his followers made up for this with better, more expensive equipment, and a bloody battle waged on the streets of [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/Drakenholm/Drakenholm\|Drakenholm]].

During the fighting, large fires began throughout the city. With the population distracted by the ongoing battles, and the labirynthine nature of the streets of early [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/Drakenholm/Drakenholm\|Drakenholm]], not enough was done to quell the fires, and so it ended up burning down three quarters to four fifths of the city. Many died during the fighting, including both [[The World/Notable People/Folk Tales/The Just\|The Just]] and [[The World/Notable People/Folk Tales/The Greedy\|The Greedy]]. The surviving section of the city is today known as [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/Drakenholm/Districts of Drakenholm/Old Town\|Old Town]].

It took many months for the surviving members to reduce hostilities enough to choose a new ruler. It was decided to choose from outside of the city, to allow a more independant choice.