---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/the-world/notable-people/rulers/draumur-greenscale-funahjarta/","tags":["Character"]}
---


Draumur 'Greenscale' Funahjarta was a [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Races/Dragonkin/Dragonborn of Q'ba\|Dragonborn of Q'ba]] [[The World/The Island of Qba/History of the Island/The Rule of Qba/The Crown\|Crown]] of [[The World/The Island of Qba/The Island of Qba\|The Island of Qba]]. He is the father of [[The World/Notable People/Rulers/Emperor Ygerdern 'the Golden' Funahjarta\|Ygerdern the Golden]], previous ruler of the island.
Greenscale was chosen to be [[The World/The Island of Qba/History of the Island/The Rule of Qba/The Crown\|The Crown]] due to being a hero of the island, when he called upon his [[The World/Deities/Deities\|Deity]], [[The World/Deities/The Four Cardinal Gods/Garyx\|Garyx]], in order to create a storm off the coast of the island with the intention of destroying pirate vessels that were performing a siege.
A powerful Cleric, Greenscale followed the [[The World/Deities/Deities\|Deities]] [[The World/Deities/The Four Cardinal Gods/Garyx\|Garyx]], despite being a Green Dragon, which are generally associated with [[The World/Deities/The Four Cardinal Gods/Null\|Null]].

It was during his reign that the [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Races/Humans/Humans of Q'ba\|Humans]] settled on the island. With ships moored off the coast, all that lived south of [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/Drakenholm/Drakenholm\|Drakenholm]] were concerned that they were to be besieged, as they were by the pirate invaders. However [[The World/Notable People/Enemies/King Francis Roberts\|King Francis Roberts]], leader of the [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Races/Humans/Humans of Q'ba\|Humans]], came to port in a small boat, as an envoy, and explained that they were here for a research expedition. Under Draumur's command, the [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Races/Humans/Humans of Q'ba\|Humans]] were allowed to come to shore, and after careful cataloguing, were given rights to settle.

He later chose his son to be his [[The World/The Island of Qba/History of the Island/The Rule of Qba/The Crown Traditions/Succession of The Crown\|Successor]] due to his strong leadership abilities, and powerful empathy with all who live on the island. 

The [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/Drakenholm/Points of Interest/Statue of Greenscale\|Statue of Greenscale]] resides in the plaza of [[The World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/Drakenholm/Districts of Drakenholm/Beggars Gate\|Beggars Gate]] in celebration of his life.