---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/world/the-island-of-qba/history-of-the-island/history-of-the-island/"}
---

It was not in the nature of the first settlers to leave detailed notes for future generations, and many of the notes that did exist were destroyed in a fire which blazed through much of early [[World/Settlements/Drakenholm/Drakenholm\|Drakenholm]]. However, some events of note have been documented, at least vaguely.

#### Formation of the Island
Almost 1000 years ago, a comet passed close to [[World/The Island of Qba/Toril\|Toril]], our home world. It was expected to pass the planet without issue, and it did. However, a second body was following behind the comet. This second body was caught by the gravitational pull of the planet and crashed into The Great Sea. It is believed that this meteorite became the island now known as [[World/The Island of Qba/Q'ba\|Q'ba]]. 

#### Here There Be Dragons
The first settlers of [[World/The Island of Qba/Q'ba\|Q'ba]] were [[World/Island Races/Dragonkin/Dragonborn\|Dragonborn]], the area they landed became known as [[World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/King's Landing\|Kin's Landing]]. For whatever reason they came to the island, they discovered that it has already been blessed by gods to sustain life. Most of the island was covered in a luscious greenery, but for sprigs of fresh biomes.

In the north, a mountainous peak began to be covered in snow. Marshlands in the east were filling with unique flora, specialising itself to the acidic soil on which the area sat. The south was dry and arid, but blessed already with [[World/The Island of Qba/Landmarks/The Desert/The Tears of Garyx\|The Tears of Garyx]]. And, in the west, sparse treelines were quickly becoming dense forests. These are the domains of [[World/Deities/The Four Cardinal Gods/The Four Cardinal Gods\|The Four Cardinal Gods]].

#### A City to Pierce the Sky
Somewhat centrally, a plateau sat high above the island, like a crown astride the island's head. On this spot the settlers began to build their settlement. What began as a humble village in an easily defensible position quickly became a town, then the beginnings of a city, [[World/Settlements/Drakenholm/Drakenholm\|Drakenholm]]. 

The leader of these settlers was given the title of [[World/The Island of Qba/History of the Island/The Rule of Qba/The Crown\|The Crown]], and soon after a castle was created to honor them. [[World/Settlements/Drakenholm/Districts of Drakenholm/The Castle\|The Castle]] is a spire structure built in the image of all [[World/Island Races/Dragonkin/Dragonborn\|Dragonborn]], which reaches into the sky as a signal to the gods of the island, dwarfing all but the mountain of [[World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/Astilabor's Peak\|Astilabor's Peak]] itself.

Soon new settlements spawned within each of the four regions of the island. [[World/Settlements/Astilabors Peak/Astilabor's Claw\|Astilabor's Claw]] in [[World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/Astilabor's Peak\|Astilabor's Peak]], [[World/Settlements/Dimmafall/Kindlewood\|Kindlewood]] in [[World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/Dimmafall\|Dimmafall]], as well as Nomadic tribes such as [[World/Settlements/The Desert/The Kindred Redhearts\|The Kindred Redhearts]] who chased the oasis in [[World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/The Desert\|The Desert]], and tiny stilt villages which sprung up across [[World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/Stillwater Mire\|Stillwater Mire]].

Each of these settlements was tiny, and required constant supply from [[World/Settlements/Drakenholm/Drakenholm\|Drakenholm]] to sustain itself, but benefitted from the liberty away from the cramped and labyrinthine streets of a city which grew faster than plans could be made.

This is how the settlers lived for hundreds of years, with occasional visits from others who come from the [[World/The Island of Qba/Far-off Lands\|Far-off Lands]], of whom some would rarely remain on the island.

#### A Pot Boiled Over
Around 300 years ago, [[World/The Island of Qba/History of the Island/The Rule of Qba/The Crown\|The Crown]] of [[World/The Island of Qba/Q'ba\|Q'ba]] died, as many had done before. However, this time was different.

[[World/The Island of Qba/History of the Island/The Rule of Qba/The Crown Traditions/Succession of The Crown\|Succession of The Crown]] was well defined by this point, yet the rules were simple: whosoever is the current ruler of the island may choose their successor from anyone else on the island, and that choice is to be upheld. 

The choice, in this case, passed [[World/The Island of Qba/History of the Island/The Rule of Qba/The Crown\|The Crown]] to a member outside of the family, now known simply as [[The Just\|The Just]]. The son, now known as [[The Greedy\|The Greedy]], took this personally as they considered themselves 'the heir', believing [[World/The Island of Qba/History of the Island/The Rule of Qba/The Crown\|The Crown]] to be a birthright. Unfortunately, as stories pass from one storyteller to another, their true names have been lost to time.

[[The Greedy\|The Greedy]] was powerful, a noble, with similarly powerful friends. Money moves people, and in this case moved them into a frenzy rising up against [[The Just\|The Just]], a simple carpenter who built homes for the needy. 
Such a rebellion was not as easy as [[The Greedy\|The Greedy]] expected, as many common folk stood against him, knowing [[The Just\|The Just]] to be worthy of [[World/The Island of Qba/History of the Island/The Rule of Qba/The Crown\|The Crown]]. Not only, through the choice of the previous ruler, but also as the choice of the common folk. 

This led to a war in the city of [[World/Settlements/Drakenholm/Drakenholm\|Drakenholm]]. The nobility had resources, which the common folk made up for in numbers. It was during this time that fires around the city began, which could not be stopped easily due to the overcrowding within the city. 

Between the fighting and the fire, hundreds lost their lives. Including both [[The Greedy\|The Greedy]] and [[The Just\|The Just]]. It was many months until hostilities calmed enough for a new [[World/The Island of Qba/History of the Island/The Rule of Qba/The Crown\|Crown]] to be named, chosen from the settlements outside of the city in order to try to appease the whole island.

Eventually, the island returned to relative harmony once more.

#### The Eyes of a God
It was this war, a battle of justice and greed, which brought [[World/Deities/The Binary Gods/Bahamut\|Bahamut]] and [[World/Deities/The Binary Gods/Tiamat\|Tiamat]]'s gaze upon the island, and so two new gods joined [[World/The Island of Qba/History of the Island/Q'ba's Draconic Pantheon\|Q'ba's Draconic Pantheon]], come to be known as [[World/Deities/The Binary Gods/The Binary Gods\|The Binary Gods]]. Soon small shrines to these gods began appearing alongside those of [[World/Deities/The Four Cardinal Gods/The Four Cardinal Gods\|The Four Cardinal Gods]], some [[World/Island Races/Dragonkin/Dragonborn\|Dragonborn]] even set aside [[World/Deities/The Four Cardinal Gods/The Four Cardinal Gods\|The Four]] to pledge themselves only to [[World/Deities/The Binary Gods/Bahamut\|Bahamut]] or [[World/Deities/The Binary Gods/Tiamat\|Tiamat]]. 

#### The City Sheds its Skin
From the literal ashes of [[World/Settlements/Drakenholm/Drakenholm\|Drakenholm]], the city became reborn. The population slowly began to recover, and as it did new districts were created, each more carefully thought out than the city's previous form. 

The settlements across the island became integral to the rebuild, with [[World/Settlements/Dimmafall/Kindlewood\|Kindlewood]] in particular providing building materials, and [[World/Settlements/Astilabors Peak/Astilabor's Claw\|Astilabor's Claw]] providing previous materials for luxuries. This increase in job opportunity brought in a population increase. And where precious materials are to be mined, [[World/Island Races/Non-Human/Dwarf\|Dwarves]] are easy to come by. 

As the city grew, artisans made their stores within [[World/Settlements/Drakenholm/Districts of Drakenholm/The Bread Forge\|The Bread Forge]], and temples to each of the Gods were built in [[World/Settlements/Drakenholm/Districts of Drakenholm/Free Borough\|Free Borough]]. Those who were wealthy made their homes in [[World/Settlements/Drakenholm/Districts of Drakenholm/Upper Quarters\|The White Gardens District]], and those who transcended even those in wealth, built along [[World/Settlements/Drakenholm/Districts of Drakenholm/Dragonhill Mile\|Dragonhill Mile]]. Most everyone else was tasked with repairing, and living within, the last remains of the city before the fire, now called [[World/Settlements/Drakenholm/Districts of Drakenholm/Old Town\|Old Town]]. 

Unfortunately, with a steadily increasing population and careful planning comes displacement. The city's grand entrance plaza slowly became a spot for those who had nowhere else to live, but that could not face leaving the city. The plaza earned the nicknamed [[World/Settlements/Drakenholm/Districts of Drakenholm/Beggars Gate\|Beggars Gate]]. While it was not uncommon for the plaza to be empty, due to bouts of sudden builds elsewhere, the nickname stuck.

##### The Klither
With farmland nearly reaching their limits and a constant battle with disease, population growth began to slow and became more steady and manageable. 

During this time people began to move away from labour tasks and it became common for people to move into other fields, such as art, or the study of the arcane and divine. 

As people became more competent with magic, they began to find that the island suffered from an affliction which they called [[The Klither\|The Klither]]. Planar travel was almost impossible, and extradimensional spaces were filled with an inexplicable, endless buzzing. Study of these kinds became rare due to the danger of Wild Magic as an effect of [[The Klither\|The Klither]], yet for some this was all the more reason to study.

#### Moving in Circles
Somewhere around 100 years ago a druid circle, the [[World/Settlements/Dimmafall/Circle of the Shepherd\|Circle of the Shepherd]], visited the island whilst looking for regions of beauty, in which they would spread the seeds of [[World/Island Races/Non-Human/Dryad\|Dryad]]s. 

They were awed by the beauty of [[World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/Dimmafall\|Dimmafall]] and it's forest. Beyond just planting the seeds of [[World/Island Races/Non-Human/Dryad\|Dryad]], many of the druids decided to make a permanent settlement within in order to bask in the forest and watch over the [[World/Island Races/Non-Human/Dryad\|Dryad]].

#### Land Ho
Approximately 70 years ago, a wandering fleet of pirates were wondering The Great Sea and happened upon the island of [[World/The Island of Qba/Q'ba\|Q'ba]]. Assuming the island to be full of goods, the pirates blockaded the island at [[World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/King's Landing\|Kin's Landing]] stopping trade from entering the island. The island's population struggled to maintain itself during the almost year long siege as trade was significant in ensuring enough food stock between harvesting seasons. Beyond just blockading the island, the pirates unleashed a constant barrage of canon fire at the island, damaging infrastructure near the coast, and especially [[World/The Island of Qba/Island Regions/King's Landing\|Kin's Landing]] itself. 

Eventually, after a period of failed negotiations, a powerful [[World/Island Races/Dragonkin/Dragonborn\|Dragonborn]] cleric stepped up with an answer. [[World/The Island of Qba/History of the Island/The Rule of Qba/Previous Rulers/Draumur 'Greenscale' Funahjarta\|Draumur 'Greenscale' Funahjarta]] was a follower of [[World/Deities/The Four Cardinal Gods/Garyx\|Garyx]] and called upon his deity to aid the island, calling down a maelstrom upon the pirates. This destroyed most of the ships outright, made many more unseaworthy, and sent a powerful message to any pirates that lived to tell the tale. None have returned for a second attempt.

#### Upon a New Head
A few years later, on Sunday, the 28th of Voxtur, 1422 [[World/The Island of Qba/History of the Island/The Rule of Qba/Previous Rulers/Draumur 'Greenscale' Funahjarta\|Draumur 'Greenscale' Funahjarta]] is chosen to become [[World/The Island of Qba/History of the Island/The Rule of Qba/The Crown\|The Crown]] of [[World/The Island of Qba/Q'ba\|Q'ba]] for his heroic actions against the pirate attackers. This day was chosen to be highly symbolic, as this made [[World/The Island of Qba/History of the Island/The Rule of Qba/Previous Rulers/Draumur 'Greenscale' Funahjarta\|Greenscale]]'s first full day as island ruler the first day of the month of [[World/The Island of Qba/Calendar\|Garyx]], and thus showed thanks for the part that [[World/Deities/The Four Cardinal Gods/Garyx\|Garyx]] played in the event.


***(Still to be fleshed out)***
- **40 years ago** - a fleet of ships were spotted off the coast of [[World/The Island of Qba/Q'ba\|Q'ba]]. A row boat approached the docks, the ships contained [[World/Island Races/Human/Human\|Humans]], some who had a scholarly interest in the island, and others who had joined them to settle on the island with them. The leader of the humans, [[The Crown - Francis Roberts\|The Crown - Francis Roberts]], was the first to leave the row boat which entered port where he met [[World/The Island of Qba/History of the Island/The Rule of Qba/The Crown\|The Crown]], [[World/The Island of Qba/History of the Island/The Rule of Qba/Previous Rulers/Draumur 'Greenscale' Funahjarta\|Draumur]], the father of [[World/The Island of Qba/History of the Island/The Rule of Qba/Previous Rulers/Emperor Ygerdern 'the Golden' Funahjarta\|Emperor Ygerdern 'the Golden' Funahjarta]]. Draumur had come to the port as the ships were a cause for concern, however [[The Crown - Francis Roberts\|The Crown - Francis Roberts]] put forward his proposition of research on the island. Draumur, The Crown, cautiously agreed to let the humans settle, though each must be catalogued as the enter the island. Francis Roberts was given the title of Human Envoy, and responsibility of the behaviour of humans was ultimately on him.
- Humans brought with them their own god, [[World/Deities/Human Gods/Ilmatar\|Ilmatar]], The One who Endures. It is under this god that the humans bare great workload and through this hard work do they bring understanding of agriculture and healing.
- As time passed from the human landing, technology and knowledge passed from human to dragonborn which allowed for improved crop yield, increased healing abilities, as well as many other things. Times on the island were fruitful and Q'ba become much closer to self-sufficiency, allowing increased trade exports and fewer needs for imports. In the 40 years since, human life has boomed on the island, with the population of humans outgrowing that of dragonborn.
- **30 years ago** - Draumur succeeded The Crown to his son, Ygerdern, and some short years later passed on. Shortly after Ygerdern's succession named his council of The Three as is tradition, but Ygerdern granted council to a fourth member, Francis Roberts, naming him Secretary to Humanity. Such a bond between dragonborn and human was a great gift to be bestowed.
- **11 years ago** - Ygerdern the Golden died an elder, upon his death his will was that The Crown should be passed to Francis Roberts the Foreign, as with his leadership life for all on Q'ba had gained many boons. This decision was seconded by the son of Ygerdern, Leifr.
- Throughout this time Francis Roberts had been sending out, or performing first hand, research across the island in order to understand the geographical landscape and it's potentially magical origins.
- **10 years ago** - Francis Roberts introduces the first change in taxes upon the island. This change leads to an increase in non-human tax payments, the purpose for this tax increase is due to the inequitable amount of income received from the human race due to their higher population rates (5%). Improving equity among the human and non-human races is the given validation for such a tax. It is met with harsh words and dispute, but thanks to Francis Roberts' history with the island the law is passed without great effort.
- In this same year Francis Roberts moved on from Ygerdern's council. The Three were stepped down from their positions. Francis Roberts made a break from tradition and instated 4 members to his council.
- **9 Years ago** - human population had continued increasing, now at over 10% more population than the dragonborn, and as such this non-human tax was increased. This modification was sent through his council and passed without concern.
- Over the next year, many dragonborn who were able left the island, their home for many generations, over concerns for their ability to continue to pay the taxes.
- **7 years ago** - Due to the rising challenges of paying the non-human tax many dragonborn fell into poverty, those who were the most destitute had borrowed loans from humans in order to pay the taxes and were now with no way to return the costs.
- **6 years ago** - With no way of repaying lost loans to humans, some dragonborn began lives of servitude to their now masters. Many dragonborn houses which had been noble for generations had fallen out of wealth and too were struggling to keep up with the monetary power the humans now had. This led to protests and small scale riots. In response human guards used force, and the council of Francis Roberts were renamed Keepers of the Peace.
- **4 years ago** - With many of the most impoverished dragonborn now in service to humans the symbol of [[World/Deities/Human Gods/Ilmatar\|Ilmatar]] is enforced across the island, the Four Cardinal Gods are slowly limited in following among dragonborn. 
- **2 years ago** - The land of the desert is nearly uninhabited by dragonborn, but for a nomad tribe. In the last year, the blasts of lightning throughout the night has significantly waned. 
- Leifr, son of Ygerdern, disappears from the public eye.
- **1 Year ago** - Seemingly coordinated attacks on food caravans between the farms and the city began. Within a week guards increased on food caravans, attacks did not last long. This was merely a spark, but that of rebellion.
- **Throughout this past decade**, during times of civil unrest, temples have often been targets for rioting and assault, leading to the destruction of many temples dedicated to [[World/Deities/The Four Cardinal Gods/The Four Cardinal Gods\|The Four Cardinal Gods]], especially those considered to align with negative aspects of life, such as [[World/Deities/The Four Cardinal Gods/Null\|Death]], [[World/Deities/The Four Cardinal Gods/Garyx\|Destruction]], or [[World/Deities/The Four Cardinal Gods/Astilabor\|Greed]].
- ***This year*** 
	- Talk of rebellion is muttered under hushed breathes in back alleys, the thought alone considered treason. Hooded people gathering in back alleys can only be considered a rumour. The news has not reported an attack on patrolling guards for months.
	- The power of the Four Cardinal Gods wavers and the desert storm has weakened. It rages with ferocity still, but only once a week. A far sight from the nightly event it once was.
	- Conversion of the acid marshes has been started by a group of humans, the aim is to terraform the area for eventual conversion to allow much increased farming potential.
	- The Dwarves and Goblins, known wide for their harvesting of riches in the mountains have not been seen in some time, leading to rumours that they have found some way of leaving the island.
	- The port continues to bustle with the trade of many nations. With cargo passing through on its way to a final destination, the island has long been a great rest point for entertainment and stocking up on supplies.
	- The Crown's daughter, Princess Frances Roberts has not been seen in many months. Previously known for her friendship with fellow islanders, especially those who she went to school with, many of whom were noble born dragonborn from houses now fallen.
	- King Francis Roberts continues to be seen in public, a show of strength against those wanting him out of the picture.

