---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/people/legendary-figures/leifr-funahjarta/"}
---


Leifr Funahjarta, son of [[The Island of Qba/History of the Island/The Rule of Qba/Previous Rulers/Ygerdern 'the Golden' Funahjarta\|Ygerdern 'the Golden' Funahjarta]], is also a [[Island Races/Dragonkin/Dragonborn\|Golden Dragonborn]] and thus is of an ancestry of fire. This fire, too, burns as passion for all that he does. It is well known across the island of [[The Island of Qba/Q'ba\|Q'ba]] that Leifr is a friend to all, and this is further enforced by his following of [[Deities/The Four Cardinal Gods/Tamara\|Tamara]] as a Cleric of the [[Deities/The Four Cardinal Gods/-Domains of The Four-\|Life Domain]], where he has earned considerable skill as a healer. Though noble-born his intention toward commonfolk has earned him great respect, just as his father before him. 

With his [[Island Races/Dragonkin/Dragonborn\|Draconic Ancestry]] tied to the element of fire and religious roots set in [[Deities/The Four Cardinal Gods/Tamara\|Tamara's]] [[Deities/The Four Cardinal Gods/-Domains of The Four-\|Domain]] much of Leifr's time is spent travelling between the forest of [[The Island of Qba/Island Regions/Dimmafall\|Dimmafall]] and [[The Island of Qba/Island Regions/The Desert\|The Desert]], as well as in [[Settlements/Drakenholm/Drakenholm\|Drakenholm]] and [[The Island of Qba/Island Regions/Kin's Landing\|Kin's Landing]]. It is in these places he spends most of his time and most closely follows religious events, ceremonies and worship. These locations, too, are the places where he is most known by the people, some of whom he has formed a strong connection with in spite of social standing. 

Since the rule of [[People/Enemies/Francis Roberts\|King Francis Roberts]] Leifr's public visibility has reduced significantly, he has not been seen at all within the last 2 years. It is known that during the time leading up to his disappearance he was known to provide support, both medically and financially, to those who need it, whether [[Island Races/Dragonkin/Dragonborn\|Dragonborn]], [[Island Races/Human/Human\|Human]] or [[Island Races/Non-Human/-Non-Human List\|-Non-Human List]]. His non-preferential treatment of all races left some treating him with distain, whether they considered themselves to be aligned with [[The Island of Qba/History of the Island/The Rule of Qba/The Crown\|The Crown]] or otherwise.

